So far I've been taking a very algebraic approach to talking about complex numbers but complex numbers
also have an interesting geometric interpretation and that is what I'm going to introduce you to in
this video.
So a quick reminder a complex number is a number that has two parts a real part and an imaginary part.
Now because this number has two parts and the two are separate from each other.
In other words whatever number is in the real part has nothing to do with whatever number is in the
imaginary part.
We can actually represent this as a coordinate on a plane.
So imagine a coordinate system that looks something like this.
Now you've probably referred to this kind of graph before it's like a Cartesian axis where this would
be the x axis and the y axis but now I'm just going to call this the real axis.
It's typically indicated R E and the imaginary axis which is typically indicated I am.
So now this complex number can actually be conceptualized as a point on this plane.
So it's pretty simple we go to units over on the real axis and then three units up on the imaginary
axis.
So that gives us a coordinate here and then you can also think about this complex number as a vector
as a line that goes from the origin of this plane.
This real and imaginary axis plane to that coordinate defined by the complex number.
So this whole space is called the complex plane complex plane because it has a real axis and an imaginary
axis.
This geometric conceptualization of a complex number as a point on this complex plane leads to a lot
of really important applications of complex numbers in linear algebra in spectral analysis and the 48
transforms signal processing and so on.
So you will learn about these applications later on through your adventures in mathematics.
But for now I'm just going to introduce you to the idea of plotting a complex number on a plane in Python.
So we are going to use the number pi and map plot of Pi plot modules in this video.
So let's just start by creating a complex number.
How about two come a 3.
That's the one that I showed in the slides.
So let's see if the universe were a really lovely place.
Then it would be simple to plot complex numbers and it would just look something like this.
Huh OK.
So we do get a dot in a plane but if you look at the coordinates this doesn't match what the actual
numbers say.
So you would have expected that the number or that the coordinate would be at 2 come comma 3.
But this looks like it's at zero Comma 2.
And then we also get this warning here and it says discards the imaginary part.
OK.
So it turns out that the universe is not such a nice place and it's a little bit more involved to plot
a complex number.
Fortunately it's still not so difficult.
So all we have to do is extract the real part and the imaginary part from this complex number separately.
So the appropriate way to plot a complex number is to extract the real part that goes on the x axis
and then the imaginary part of Z.
In this case the complex number.
And that gives us the imaginary part on the y axis.
So then you can see that this dot is indeed now located at 2 and 3.
Okay.
So now I just want to spend a few more moments making this plot look a little bit nicer.
So let's call the x axis.
Label real and the y axis label imaginary and let's put on a grid.
Let's see how this looks so far.
Okay.
So this is looking a little bit better.
The main thing that I want to do here is make sure that the center of the graph is that the origin of
the complex plane.
So this center should actually be at 0 0.
So to do that I'm going to change the axis.
Let's say about 4.
So we'll make it minus 44 on the x axis and minus 40 plus four on the y axis.
All right.
So this is a pretty good start.
I went to do a little bit more now and that is to draw lines from the origin instead of just coordinates
and actually you know maybe I'll just plot it right on top of this.
So let's say so this plots the coordinate and now I want to plot a line that goes from the origin to
that coordinate.
So you will remember from how to draw a line that we start with the 2 x coordinates and then the 2 y
coordinates.
So the first x coordinate is zero.
That's where the line starts and then the line ends well it ends at the real part which is exactly what
we have here.
So I will write num pi real Z and then the y part goes from also zero because we start from the origin
and then that goes up to the imaginary part and maybe we should make this line also red.
All right.
So that looks pretty good.
This is pretty similar to what I showed in the slides a few moments ago.
Now if you like you can positive video and add more to this.
For example maybe you want to put thicker black lines along the zero axes.
But I would say this is pretty good for now the exercise for this video is to generate two complex numbers.
So I call them here z 1 and said to the real part is minus three and minus one and the imaginary part
is just I.
In both cases and then what you want to do is generate these two plots so this is essentially said one
plus Z two over here and Z one times Z two.
Over here you can see in both of these cases actually Z one and Z two are exactly the same lines right.
And it's just plotting said one.
So the addition versus the product of these two complex numbers.
All right.
So switch to Python positive video write some code to produce these two graphs.
And now I am going to switch to Python and you can watch me come up with a solution so let's start down
here with a clean.
So first thing I'm going to do is write down these complex numbers.
So said one was n Peter complex minus three comma 1.
Remember if the imaginary part is 1 then the complex number is actually just written as an eye with
no number.
So and then Z 2 was known Pi the complex minus 1 and 1.
Okay.
And then let's call this said maybe 1 p s p 2 for Z 1 plus you know even put that in there and that
equals simply said one plus said two.
Okay.
So now we want to plot.
So p all teed up plot.
Now this is gonna be pretty similar to the code we used up here.
In fact maybe I'll even copy and paste this code so paste in I will let Python pick the right colors
and now we just have to make sure to change the variables so this is no longer Z it's actually said
1 and I'm going to add a label so we get a legend so label equals z 1 and now I can just copy and paste
and paste again.
So this is for Z 2 and said 3.
That's said one plus the two and this one is said.
And this one is said to.
This one is said two plus said two years have to be super careful when you are copying and pasting code
that you're not making any mistakes by omission.
For example this would be a pretty easy mistake to make.
You correctly changed this variable here but you forgot to change this variable here all right.
And actually now I'm gonna run all the code in this cell just to make sure that it already looks good.
Okay so this is already working we don't see any errors but I want to adjust this plot a little bit
so it looks nicer in particular.
The most important thing to change is putting the origin of the complex plane into the center of the
graph.
And so I'm actually going to copy and paste some of this code down here and let's just see how that
looks.
Okay so that looks pretty good except the plots looks like it might be getting cut off here.
So how about first of all let me write peel.
Data show.
So how about I try maybe five instead of four.
Okay so that part looks better and now I want to make this x axis square so peel the axis square and
then the last thing I'm going to do is activate the legend to make sure that we see the labels.
Okay.
So I think this looks great.
This looks just like what we showed on these slides a moment ago.
Now fortunately the next part of the exercise is super easy.
All you need to do is copy and paste this into the next cell.
And now I'm going to say said one times Z too.
And this has to be replaced with multiplication and then did you do I think all this is the same except
this will say times OK so we don't get any errors but somehow this line almost looks like it's the same
as this but in fact it looks like it's exactly the same as this part.
So maybe I did something wrong here.
In fact what I did wrong was exactly the mistake that I just warned you about.
I copied and pasted code and didn't change enough of the code.
So this is still said one plus said to some so plotting the same vector as above.
So this needs to be a T four times and this needs to be t four times.
Okay.
And now that looks really good in this video you got an introduction to representing complex numbers
geometrically.
So on a graph I told you about the complex plane and I showed you how to plot complex numbers both as
points as coordinates and also as lines from the origin to those points in Python.